PURPOSE

Mash is a fast sequence distance estimator that uses the MinHash
algorithm and is designed to work with genomes and metagenomes in the
form of assemblies or reads. It is implemented in C++ and is
distributed with:

KSeq
  lh3lh3.users.sourceforge.net/kseq.shtml
  MIT License

MurmurHash3
  code.google.com/p/smhasher/wiki/MurmurHash3
  Public domain

Open Bloom Filter
  https://code.google.com/p/bloom/source/browse/trunk/bloom_filter.hpp
  Common Public License

Robin_Hood Unordered Map and Set
  https://github.com/martinus/robin-hood-hashing
  MIT License

COPYRIGHT LICENSE

Copyright Â© 2015, Battelle National Biodefense Institute (BNBI);
all rights reserved. Authored by: Brian Ondov, Todd Treangen,
Sergey Koren, and Adam Phillippy

This Software was prepared for the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS) by the Battelle National Biodefense Institute, LLC (BNBI) as
part of contract HSHQDC-07-C-00020 to manage and operate the National
Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC), a Federally
Funded Research and Development Center.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
